Smt. Droupadi Murmu was sworn in as the fifteenth President of India on 25 July, 2022. Previously, she was the Governor of Jharkhand from 2015 to 2021. She has devoted her life to empowering the downtrodden and the marginalised sections and deepening the democratic values.

Early Life and Education

Born in a Santhali tribal family on 20 June, 1958 at Uparbeda village, Mayurbhanj, Odisha, Smt. Murmu’s early life was marked by hardships and struggle. On completion of primary education from the village school, she went to Bhubaneswar on her own initiative to continue her studies. She earned the degree of Bachelor of Arts from Ramadevi Women’s College, Bhubaneswar and became the first woman from her village to receive college education.

Professional Career

From 1979 to 1983, Smt. Murmu served as a Junior Assistant in the Irrigation and Power Department, Government of Odisha. Later, she served as an honorary teacher at Sri Aurobindo Integral Education Centre, Rairangpur, from 1994 to 1997.

Public Life

In 2000, Smt. Murmu was elected from the Rairangpur constituency as a Member of the Legislative Assembly of Odisha and continued to hold the post till 2009, serving two terms. During this period, she served as Minister of State (Independent Charge), Department of Commerce and Transport in the Government of Odisha from March 6, 2000 to August 6, 2002 and as Minister of State (Independent Charge), Department of Fisheries and Animal Resources Development, Government of Odisha from August 6, 2002 to May 16, 2004. In both assignments, she introduced innovative initiatives and people-oriented measures.

She was also appointed a Member of various Committees including House Committees and Standing Committees of the Odisha Legislative Assembly. She also chaired some of the Committees. 

With her rich administrative experience and thanks to her efforts to spread education in tribal societies, she carved a special identity for herself. For her services as a legislator, she was awarded the Pandit Nilkanth Das – Best Legislator Award in 2007 by the Odisha Legislative Assembly.